
Thank you for all the sharings. Thank you for Sophia, “one of the little ones, the greatest in the kingdom of God” sharing. A word of congratulations for your brother, such a sweet thing. And both parents sharing, which really confirmed the message for today. And of course, Jeremiah, he gave us a 99% grade. Maybe as a husband, I would give myself an 80, but as a father, I’ll give myself a 60. I think it is one of the hardest things the Lord has asked me to do is to parent children, because you see all the flaws which have been alluded to already.

I remember when we first gathered some of the families here in Pasadena on Villa Street, 2007. And I don’t think Matthew and Emma were married back then. I think Emma was minjeong. She just had come from Korea. Like who is this new person who’s joining our church from Korea? And that was when Jeremiah, as a two-year-old, he was at Kawasaki, and I give thanksgiving to the Lord because it was potentially a life-threatening, life-altering heart condition, which many doctors would have missed. But our doctor was an seasoned elderly doctor. He saw it, and he really pushed for him to get examined. And if you don’t catch it in the first seven to 10 days, it can lead to permanent heart damage.

But because God blessed us with such a good doctor, Jeremiah was treated overnight. It was Saturday night, 16 hours straight. Jackie and I took turns held Jeremiah in the bed when he was about two years old. And so seeing him become the soon-to-be man of God, that I can say he’s becoming a man of God now at age 17, God has been really faithful, despite flawed parents who failed miserably at times just to show Christ and to show patience. And of course, we’re dealing with little ones who are gonna be sinful, and we’re supposed to be the more mature ones who respond in a Christ-like way. And I blew it plenty of times.

And so for Jeremiah, just to share those words, it’s really the love that covers over a multitude of sins (1 Peter 4:8) and the grace of God. I’m thankful that Jeremiah, he’s an obedient son. He’s allowed the word of God to be sown into his heart. And of course, there’s much more for him to experience personally, but it’s there. And once it clicks, much fruit, much faster will be born for God’s glory. I’m fully confident it will happen, and it is happening.

I’m thankful that he is such a helpful son. I mean, he doesn’t complain much, he just sets things up, he gets things running smoothly, and I don’t thank him enough, but I thank him that he’s been a helpful son, not only for our family, but for this church family, doing a lot of things in the background. I’m thankful that he is growing up to become somebody that the Lord can depend upon. He is good with his words, and I know God will use that for His kingdom in the future.

So I’m thankful on this day He has pulled us through, and when God told us to homeschool, when Timothy was in eighth grade, so Jeremiah must have been about fifth grade, just all of them gladly wanting to do it. I think only maybe me secretly saying to the Lord, “do I have to do this?” It is much easier to send the kids away, but when you’re forced to spend 24-7 year upon year, it brings everything out. But I don’t think that I would be this close to my boys had we just gone the conventional routes of God, and it’s so good to do this for us. And the verses that the Lord gave to me, Friday night, Saturday morning, as I prayed for Jeremiah, was Proverbs 3:5-6, 5 “Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding; 6 In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will direct your paths.” (Proverbs 3:5-6)

And we don’t know where Jeremiah will be next year or the following year. We don’t know when he’s gonna go to college, where he’s gonna go to college, but the Lord knows. And so we acknowledge Him now, even in the season of waiting. We trust in Him, we acknowledge that He is good, that He is leading Jeremiah. And bottom line is, we really, and I’ve said this to the boys many times, I’ll say it again publicly, we really don’t care about the name of the school. We just ask the Lord to meet them wherever He sends them. That’s all that we care about. In the end, it’s about salvation, knowing the Lord Jesus, becoming more and more like Him.

And so if the Lord sees fit, it’s not this coming fall, it’s gonna have to wait a year, we trust in the Lord. If we totally blew it and he didn’t even apply to the school that the Lord wants him to go to, then I pray that in the second round, the Lord will make it clear where He wants to send Jeremiah. So with that, I’ll just pray.

Father, thank You for just the humility and the honesty of the parents in this place. Thank You for the graciousness and the understanding of the kids in this place. Lord, we’re all works in progress. Thank You that You see us all the same. We’re all children of God in different parts of our journey, but in the end, we’re children on our way to becoming more like our elder brother, Jesus Christ. Thank You, Lord, that You love us and that Your love covers over a multitude of our sins. Thank You for being gracious to us. Thank You for being a good Abba Father to all of us. And where we fall short, Father, You cover us with Your grace. You cover our children with Your grace. And they can see us through eyes of hope and love and forgiveness, and they see us even far better than maybe we see ourselves.

So Father, thank You for being gracious to parents, gracious to children, gracious to families as we try our best to love one another and obey one another, submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. Thank You for Pentecost Sunday, the Holy Spirit that was deposited to us and given to us in greater portions. Father, we ask that You continue to meet us, pour out Your Presence even now. We wanna meet You, Lord Jesus. Pour out Your Spirit, the Spirit of Jesus Christ. Baptize us, immerse us, drench us in Your Presence. Thank You, Lord. In Jesus’ Name, Amen

I attended a pastoral conference sponsored by Calvary Chapel, and there was no real theme, but I think Jack Hibbs and the speakers, they were making a, they were giving us a charge as pastors, about 500 or so of us, we gathered in Huntington Beach this past week, and he was just exhorting us to preach the whole counsel of God and to be courageous and brave, and when appropriate, to even resist governors and authorities instead of blanket obedience to Romans 13 in every situation, even situations that are evil. So that is something I’m still thinking through, praying about to see if there’s any relevance for us in this place, but in light of Pentecost, I’ve been asking the Lord to give more revelation, and so the question I wanna wrestle with today, and I wanna ask all of us in this time, is what brings Jesus the most joy? And I’ll give you a clue.

He says this in Luke 10:21, 21 “In that hour Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit and said, ‘I thank You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and prudent and revealed them to babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in Your sight.'” (Luke 10:21) 

And if you look at the verses preceding, there is the answer, but if you have a guess, or if you wanna just take it right from the verses, that’s fine too. What brings the most joy to Jesus? Because your names are written in heaven. Yes, Amen, Amen.

So let’s read those verses, starting in verse 17. 17 “Then the 70 returned with joy, saying, ‘Lord, even the demons are subject to us in Your name.'” 18 “And He said to them, ‘I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven.'” 19 “Behold, I give you the authority to trample on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy. And nothing shall by any means hurt you.'” 20 “Nevertheless, do not rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rather rejoice because your names are written in heaven.” (Luke 10:17-20)

And then the verse that follows is Jesus rejoicing in the spirit and giving thanks to His heavenly Father. After Pentecost Sunday, we might think, wouldn’t it be nice if the spirit baptized us in power? And then we went out to Culver City, to Malibu, to Torrance, wherever you live. And we started delivering people and healing people and preaching the gospel boldly on the streets and staying in people’s homes because our peace rested with them. And like the 70 that were sent out, having testimonies and rejoicing over the testimonies, that would be one potential response to a Pentecost Sunday and maybe feeling like, maybe we missed out because it didn’t happen here.

And then the Lord gave me these verses. Not to rejoice in such a pouring out of power and drenching of the Pentecost Holy Spirit and successful and fruitful ministry. And that is a cause for rejoicing. But if that’s the main reason why we rejoice, then Jesus would say, you’ve gotten something fundamentally wrong. And so before we rejoice for ministry success, before we are successful and God brings a great crowd of people, before we envy Calvary Chapel or other big names and the kind of influence they have in this world today, before such rejoicing, Jesus says, let’s rejoice that your names are written in heaven. And it brings Him such joy as He thanks God Our Father.

And what is this name written in heaven? Revelation 20, verse 11 speaks of a set of books and the book. 11 “Then I saw a great white throne and Him who was seated on it. The earth and the heavens fled from His presence, and there was no place for them.” (Revelation 20:11) And the books that are mentioned in verses 11 to 15 are the books that all people, especially those who do not believe in the Lord Jesus, that they will be judged according to their works. And when we, especially the non-believer reaches this day of judgment, God is not gonna say, oh, you did a good job as a doctor, or you did a good job as a professor, you did a good job as whatever works you did.

These are works that will lead to judgment. It’s works of the flesh. It’s works of things we said, things we did that we should not have said, should not have done. And those who do not know Christ, there are a set of books that records everything. And it is a fearful thing on judgment day that these set of books are opened. For the believer, I think there are a record of our works, but the books that are opened are not a fearful thing. I think for the believer, there’s only a sense of how much reward will you get for the works that you did for the Lord in the Spirit. So we’re not focusing on the books.

For the believer, there is the book. In that book, the book’s name is mentioned in Revelation 21:27, But there shall by no means enter it, anything that defiles or causes an abomination or lie, but only those who are written in the Lamb’s Book of Life. (Revelation 21:27) And so when it speaks of our names written in heaven, it is the believer before the foundation of the world, your name, my name, for those who profess Christ, our names are written in the Lamb’s Book of Life. And so on our judgment day, we are not sweating it like those who do not know Christ. Our names are written in the Lamb’s Book of Life. And the only discussion for our judgment, for the believer, is how much reward will you get? But don’t worry, you made it to heaven.

And it says in Luke 10:21, going back to our main text, 21 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in the Spirit and said, “I thank You, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that You have hidden these things from the wise and prudent and reveal them to babes. Even so, Father, for so it seemed good in Your sight.” (Luke 10:21)

The wise is the skilled, somebody who’s skilled in terms of a worldly, you have a worldly skill that you look to and you derive significance from and the world applauds you for these skills, that is wisdom, according to this world. It’s also just practical matters. You have street smarts. You just know how to function in this day. You know how to invest, you know how to manage your funds, you know how to make decisions that will maximize gain for yourself. There’s a street smart, this is wisdom, according to this world.

There’s also just the wisdom that comes through learning, education, year after year study. And after you study in high school, then you do college and after college you get a master’s and some go to PhD and just endless study. You’re in IT, you’re never done. You’re always learning because IT technology is changing day by day. This is what it says about wisdom.

And in sharp contrast is the babes. The babes. And so I appreciate Sophia as a representative of the infants to children, that God is so pleased to reveal things to the infants and to hide things from those who have supposed wisdom.

And I remember in my early years at the pasture, I thought pasturing and preaching was just exercising effort in the same way that we gain worldly knowledge. It is study, a lot of brain activity, it is taking notes, reviewing your notes, looking at other wise people, what they say and then just synthesizing a conclusion. That’s worldly wisdom and some people are very skilled at synthesizing pieces of knowledge and saying, oh, this is what it means. And they just distill it down. That is a worldly wisdom that people who are trained academically, they’re very good at this.

But if that’s your approach and that was my approach to pastoring and preaching in the beginning and that was a 40 hour effort every Sunday of studying commentary after commentary and studying what is John Piper think, what is Tim Keller think, what does this pastor think and listening, studying, using my brain the same way that I was trained to do in this world.

And God’s point is God actually conceals and hides revelation to people who are wise in this world. And if you approach spiritual life the same way, things are concealed, hidden. I remember how nervous I was when the Lord said stop. I was burning out at year two already and I was saying things that somebody who has been pastoring for 20 years would say. Like I’ve hit a wall, like is this all there is? Why am I so tired Saturday night, Sunday morning and I have a dissertation 20 page carefully researched and I’m just reading it line by line because I don’t wanna mess up because I had a high view of scripture and this is authoritative. I wanna be sure I’m right and I can get support from other people.

And then when the Lord said stop, I was so nervous. And when He said, why don’t you get rid why don’t you get rid of all your commentaries, I was really nervous. And when He said put away the manuscript, I was really nervous. And when He said just do one point, I was really nervous. And don’t take up notes, I was really nervous. 

I remember the first Sunday I went up there and I was trembling and I said, Lord, You gotta come through for me. Just give me revelation. You gave me one sentence and You expect me to come up all I have after a week of praying is one line. You think I can preach with one line? I don’t trust You Lord, but I’ll try. Let me just believe You this first Sunday. Let me just go up with one line and with a week of praying about this one sentence and statement and the Lord came through.

And from that point on, I’ve been trying to do sermons and preaching totally different. Not academic, not reading, not studying, not intellectual exercise and effort, but just listening to the word of God because faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ (Romans 10:17). Waiting for God to highlight a word that was spoken through the listening of God’s word and the reading of God’s word.

And to ask questions like, okay, Lord, You brought attention to that verse. What does it mean, Lord? I don’t understand. And when you see scripture, like Jesus deliberately spoke in parables and the crowds heard it and it was authoritative and they were stirred and they were moved, but at the end they don’t understand and they leave impressed, but their life doesn’t change.

And the difference between the crowd and the disciple is a crowd has a relationship with Jesus. And so the crowd heard the same message, but they asked Jesus questions like, what does this mean? And it’s like a little child who is not presuming they know and so they just ask basic questions. Can you explain that? I don’t understand and like a child and a parent who receives that question from a child, of course we’re gonna explain it. We’re gonna bring it down to their level. We’re gonna make it very simple.

And when the disciples came to Jesus, asked some questions about the parables that they just heard, they did not understand like the crowd and because they asked questions, Jesus explained to them. And I’ve been trying my best, not always successfully, but I’ve been trying my best to preach this way where I receive one impression and then I asked the Lord, what does it mean? Can You elaborate? Why is this verse sticking out as I heard it? Why is this resonating? Why is this coming off the page? Why am I hearing this one a little different? Can you clarify what it means? And it’s just a little child who’s trying to do spiritual life differently. It is revelation. It is an opening of eyes. Like one moment, you’re blind. And then the answer comes. The next moment, you see. Right before, you didn’t hear. And then the moment comes, the answer comes, and then you hear. That’s how revelation works.

And only somebody who humbles himself, like a little infant, a toddler, a little child, would approach God, Our Father, this way and ask Jesus questions. And by the Spirit, revelation is given. And I would say maybe this is more fundamental than the ministry. At church, what church wouldn’t want to grow? What church wouldn’t want to see signs and wonders? What church wouldn’t want to rejoice of testimonies of deliverance and healings? And someone walked in on a wheelchair, they walk out with two strengthened, renewed legs. What pastor and what church member wouldn’t want to see signs and wonders and the Spirit and Pentecost on every given Sunday with power?

And like Luke 10, if this was our mission trip and we came back, we would be so overjoyed about the ministry success, and we want to tell the world about it. And Jesus says, whoa, why don’t you hold on there? You’re gonna get lost if you follow this, like it says in Matthew 7, that people are so caught up with casting out demons in Jesus’ name and healing and mighty works. And at the end of the day, Jesus says, I don’t even know who you are. Like you lost touch with Me somewhere along the ways of the way of getting so busy with the ministry.

And Jesus’ invitation is let’s keep first things first. Let’s rejoice that you and I, our names are written in heaven because Jesus is overjoyed when like children, we rejoice over this foundational fundamental thing, that I’m a Christian, that I’m on the path of eternity. I know Jesus, He’s opened the way, the veil has been torn. I have direct access to my heavenly Father. I can call Him Abba, I have a spirit of adoption. I don’t have to go through a pastor, a priest, a pope. I have direct access to the throne room of God.

It’s like just by you and your Bible on a stranded island, you don’t need any other teacher, you have the Holy Spirit. He will teach you and bring to remembrance everything that Jesus taught you (John 14:26). And so for a child, you might not understand growing up in your home and you’re doing devotional and just the word of God is being sown. But at some time, the wind is going to blow and those seeds are going to bear much fruit much faster because the seeds have been sown for so long. And what rejoicing, all heaven rejoices all heaven rejoices when one of us understands the greatness of our salvation (Luke 15:10). If we understand the greatness of our salvation, I think it’s possible never to have a bad day, never to have a bad day. It’s possible if this first thing just overwhelms us, the greatness of our Savior who saves me. My name is written in the Lamb’s Book of Life.

Ministry success is great, kids getting into college is great, kids growing up doing well, marrying well, being financially stable, these are great, blessings from the Lord. But as long as I am saved and I realize the greatness of salvation, Jesus looks at that believer and says, Father, I thank you. This critical essential truth that is hidden to the scholars and the philosophers of this age, to the smartest people who know so much in the world, this foundational thing they don’t know anything about, but to this uneducated fisherman, this blue collar worker, this person who doesn’t have any worldly accolades or credential, they have this one thing. And Jesus says, I thank you, Father, you made it this way. You did this intentionally, I see how wonderful You are.

That the people who are so scholarly, they think they can find You that way, but You’ve concealed Yourself. No wonder they’re unhappy, no wonder they’re disgruntled. But this person, in terms of this world, they don’t have anything. They’re living as somebody who is so poor. They’re struggling to put food on the table, but they have this one thing, salvation. They know their eternity is secure. They’re so thankful, they’re so overjoyed to this kind of person. Jesus says He rejoices in the Holy Spirit and says, I thank you, Father, that You’ve done it this way on purpose and You reveal things to little babes, to infants.

And then He says in verse 22, 22 “All things have been delivered to me by My Father, and no one knows a son, who the son is, except the Father, and who the Father is, except the Son, and the one to whom the Son wills to reveal Him.” (Luke 10:22) Then He turned to His disciples and said privately, “Blessed are the eyes which see the things you see, 24 for I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see what you see and have not seen it, and to hear what you hear and have not heard it.” (Luke 10:23-24)

Jesus is saying His disciples, who are eyewitnesses in the first century, and all of us who’ve come subsequently since the time of Jesus’s life, death, burial, resurrection, all of us are more blessed than anybody else who’s come before, because we know the full revelation. We have everything, there’s no other further revelation that’s gonna be tacked on. We have the fullness of the revelation in Jesus Christ, and that means we’re more blessed than Moses. You and I are more blessed than Abraham and King David and Isaiah, Jeremiah, Malachi, all the prophets and the kings of the Old Testament. They only had a partial revelation. We have the full revelation.

It’s in the person of Jesus Christ, and now the Holy Spirit is available to us, and the Holy Spirit’s been poured out to us, and we have revelation, we understand things, that even the disciples who are in the midst of Luke 10 with Jesus in front of them, they still, their eyes are closed, their ears are deaf, their hearts are hardened. Only later did they receive, and we’re in that later group. We have the full revelation, and the Spirit gives more and more and more.

What happens when we stop rejoicing in our salvation, and we focus on other things, even good things, focusing on how big our church is growing or not growing, focusing on how well our children are doing or not doing, focusing on how our bank account is growing or is disappearing. There’s many different things that you can focus on in life and lose sight of this most essential thing about rejoicing, that your name and my name is written in heaven.

What happens when you stop rejoicing in that fundamental truth? I think Jesus gives us a picture of what it looks like at the end of this chapter, Luke 10, Martha and Mary. Luke 10:38-40, 38 “Now it happened as they went, that He entered a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha welcomed Him into her house. 39 And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus’ feet and heard His word. 40 But Martha was distracted with much serving, and she approached Him and said, “Lord, do You not care that my sister has left me to serve alone, therefore to serve You alone?” (Luke 10:38-40) And Jesus answered and said to her, “Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about many things, 42 but one thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part, which will not be taken away from her.” (Luke 10:41-42)

If you’re the host of a dinner party, and everybody is looking to you for the food, and for a good time, and you’re setting the mood, and you’re setting the atmosphere, and you’re bringing out the appetizers and hors d’oeuvres at the right time, you’re making sure the food doesn’t run out, you’re making sure there’s coffee and tea and beverages, because you wanna be a good host, you wanna be hospitable. Who can blame Martha for thinking this way?

And then you translate that into a ministry environment. How many pastors and ministry leaders are so focused on running a smooth program, and making sure everybody who comes is happy, and we gotta make sure the attendance is up, and offering plates are full, and everybody is greeted, everybody feels like they’re connected and welcomed, and there’s a lot of things that comes along even in a small church like ours. Many things that are, in Jesus’s words, many things that are a distraction of something much more foundational and fundamental.

We’re not here to run a good service. We’re not even here to say hi to one another, although that is a great blessing to gather as believers in the house of God. We’re here to sit at Jesus’s feet. And so the culmination of every service is the end of the service. When we have a time after, or before, or during the partaking of the Lord’s Supper, we just sit at Jesus’s feet, and we’re receiving revelation and nourishment directly from Him by the Spirit of God.

But I think we make the same mistake of Martha. We get distracted with many even good things. It’s a good thing for a host to be concerned about the dinner guests and whether or not they’re well-fed and they’re not thirsty, and everybody leaves happy and full and satisfied. That’s not a bad thing, but for that to be elevated to such a high priority in one’s heart, not only does it distract, it troubles, it leads to a life of worry and trouble. Because for Martha, she could probably say, I’m never good enough. I’m never gonna make sure everybody’s happy. Somebody’s gonna be complaining. Somebody doesn’t like the food choice. Somebody, the food’s cold because they came late, and somebody’s gonna complain about something even at a small dinner party.

And so that’s the main thing, serving others. It’s gonna distract, but also in the heart of the host, there’s gonna be a lot of chance for worry and trouble. But at a church, if we just say, the sound could be off and the slides could be wrong and the piano notes could be off, does it matter that much? It doesn’t really matter that much. Like you leave this place, you don’t remember these things.

But what we remember is, did I kneel before Jesus? And did I rejoice that He is my savior? And my name is written in the Lamb’s Book of Life. My eternity is secure. And because I understand this truth, because God revealed it, not because I’m smart or because I’m so worthy, He just out of His grace revealed it. And that’s the same word, grace and rejoicing. It’s the same root word. God showed me grace, therefore I rejoice. And if we had that kind of a moment, even a short moment of kneeling before the Lord and receiving that, and you leave this day and go into your week and say, I’m never ever going to have a bad day. I’m never ever gonna have a bad week. I’m never ever gonna allow even good or bad things around me to affect my joy. Because I want this truth to grow bigger and bigger so that I see the greatness of my salvation. If it’s all a matter of a perspective shift, if we just had this perspective shift, then it’s quite possible that you and I would never have a bad day. Even if everybody else is in a foul mood, if I understand this and I kneel before Jesus and I receive it every day, I will never ever have a bad day again. It’s a change of perspective. It’s a spirit of our minds being renewed as it says in Ephesians 4. And I pray that we can have that kind of an encounter as we close this service.

Okay, let’s pray. 

Father, I repent and we all repent. For our wrong perspective. We grumble and complain because we’re not in the right place. We’re not in the right place. We’re not in the right place. We complain because we’re focusing on the wrong things. Even good things, even blessings, even ministry, even children, even job, even finances. These are blessings and good things. But if we allow it to become the most important thing in our lives, to have a big church, to have a good family, to have a lot of friends, to be respected, praised, if we allow anything to become the most important thing, then it’s simply a distraction and it is simply a wrong perspective. And no wonder our eyes remain blind, our ears deaf, and our heart hardened.

So Lord, we humble ourselves like a little child who is the greatest in the kingdom of God. We abandon all of our experience, all of our years in the church, our position and our titles. We abandon it all. We’re all children. And we’re children who mess up, who are works in progress. But Lord, You choose to reveal the most precious truth to such people who are humble.

Lord Jesus, You rejoice the most, You’re most joyful. You thank God so with so much zeal when You see, brothers and sisters, the church of God, rejoicing in the greatness of our salvation, our names are written in the Lamb’s Book of Life. Give us this renewed perspective, renew our mind in the spirit of our mindset (Ephesians 4:23). 

I pray, Lord, that we would see ourselves through the lens of this truth. We are saved. We’re on the path of salvation. We know Jesus, we have access to our Heavenly Father. It’s been revealed to us. It’s been what was hidden and secret has been revealed. We have understanding now. And Lord, we choose now to rejoice in this very thing, the greatness of Jesus, the greatness of our Savior, the greatness of our salvation, the greatness of this truth that our names are written in the Lamb’s Book of Life. It happened before the foundation of our life. In the Lamb’s Book of Life, it happened before the foundation of the world. How much security there is for us as believers.

Everybody else has many books opened and a lot of judgment coming for them. But Lord, as believers, we have one book and one book only, the Lamb’s Book of Life. It’s opened, our names are in it. We rejoice, we’ll rejoice for all eternity. 

Thank You, Lord, for allowing Your Body to be broken at Calvary as You took up Your cross for the joy that was set before You, seeing all of us rejoice over this truth that we are saved. Thank You for Your Blood that was shed, that covers, cleanses, sanctifies Your church. We are made new every day.

Lord, we pray that we would go out from this place, having met You, having knelt in Your Presence, and we receive, we choose to receive this truth that will never have a bad day in our lives again. Thank You, Lord. In Jesus’ Name, Amen
