
Well, thank you, everybody, for special music, for reading of God’s Word, and just blessing all of us with your offerings of praise. Please turn with me to Colossians 1:3. Colossians 1:3. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven.

Of this, you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, which has come to you. As indeed in the whole world, it is bearing fruit and increasing, as it also does among you, since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth.

3 We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, 4 since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, 5 because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel, 6 which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing as it also does among you, since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth, (Colossians 1:3-6, ESV)

Okay, let’s pray.

Father, we want to understand the gospel of Jesus Christ in all of its fullness, that Jesus died for sinners. He resurrected, conquering sin and death, nailing all of our sins on a cross, setting captives free, opening up blind eyes.

So, Lord, we ask in this moment that you would speak to us personally. In light of this resurrection, how should things be different? So, Lord, we pray that you would speak to us. We avail ourselves to you. In Jesus’ Name we pray, Amen.

Well, Good Friday service. We spent some time nailing our sins on the cross, putting to death our sins, crucifying our flesh with his passions and desires. So, now what? Jesus is alive and so many Christians are gathered in church.

Churches, and there were all, I think, on this Sunday, basically saying the same thing: that Jesus is alive. And a light of this truth, that he is alive, doesn’t make a difference. Like Monday morning when we wake up, doesn’t it make a difference? Is it just a weekend high, a Sunday high, everyone?

Spent weeks preparing for some Easter production, and then by Monday, is anything lasting? And that’s what I want to wrestle with today. What is the gospel, the full gospel, and I think a better?

The question to start with is, “Who is the gospel?” I encourage you to read Colossians 1 through 4. It’s a short book, but there is so much here for you and me.

I’ll start with Colossians 1:15.

15 He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. 16 For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities–all things were created through him and for him. 17 And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. 18 And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent. 19 For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, 20 and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. (Colossians 1:15-20, ESV)

And I’ll read also from Colossians 2:1.

1 For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those at Laodicea and for all who have not seen me face to face, 2 that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God’s mystery, which is Christ, 3 in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. (Colossians 2:1-3, ESV)

There are many partial Gospels out there. Jesus died for your sins. He’s your Savior. Now, let’s get on with our life. What difference does he make? For many of us, maybe not much.

Like there’s pockets, moments when it seems like the fact that Jesus is alive, he resurrected, it seems like it makes a difference and we feel convicted and there’s faith for that in moments. But does it last beyond a Sunday afternoon? Does it go into Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, throughout your week? Or does it just fade and fizzle away?

And Paul, he is inspired by the Holy Spirit. He says, all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are found in Christ.

3 in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. (Colossians 2:3, ESV)

He is the head of the church. All the fullness of God was pleased to dwell in him.

Jesus is it. He is the Gospel embodied, and we need to know him. We need to spend time with him. We need to abide in him. We need to follow him.

A partial Gospel would be something like this: Jesus nailed your sins on the cross. God now sees you through the righteousness of his Son so that in the legal courts of heaven, you are declared not guilty. That is true. It’s true. Romans 8:1 says, “There is no condemnation for us who are in Christ Jesus.”

1 There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. (Romans 8:1, ESV)

It is true. But if it stops there, that we say, “Okay, Jesus did everything. I don’t have to do anything and I just rest in his righteousness,” I think Monday can look very different than Sunday.

Here’s a fuller gospel: that in Jesus, you can progress in your sanctification to the point that one day in heaven, God will say to you, not only are you not guilty, but you’re innocent. That much you’ve changed in Christ.

Romans 6:6.

6 We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. 7 For one who has died has been set free from sin. (Romans 6:6-7, ESV)

Did you know that Jesus came to bring this body of sin to nothing? The thing that used to keep you in chains, that addiction, the unrighteousness which defined your life, the addictions, the corruption, the thoughts, the motives, the heart, everything was black, everything was wrong.

But did you know that Jesus came to bring that very thing to nothing? So that in him, you are a new creature, a new creation. All things are new.

That is a fuller gospel, not just Jesus’ righteousness, but in him, I too become righteous more and more, more and more like Jesus. So that on our last day, we look very different than we did on our first day.

So that in the first day, it’s true, you’re not guilty because of what Christ did. But on your last day, may he save us. We’re also innocent.

A partial gospel says, “Jesus saved you. And the reason he saved you is to bring you to heaven.” It’s true.

But a fuller gospel is: Jesus saved you to bring heaven down to you. That is very different. Very different. Colossians 1:24.

24 Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ’s afflictions for the sake of his body, that is, the church, 25 of which I became a minister according to the stewardship from God that was given to me for you, to make the word of God fully known, 26 the mystery hidden for ages and generations but now revealed to his saints. 27 To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. (Colossians 1:24-26, ESV)

And what is this mystery that Paul is speaking about? We already touched upon it, but in verse 27, I think, is God’s answer to that question of what is this mystery? It is one of the most profound verses, in my opinion, in all of Scripture. Colossians 1:27.

27 To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. (Colossians 1:27, ESV)

That tells me that heaven came down to us. Jesus came down to us. He is with us, and the Spirit of Christ, God’s Spirit, dwells in us, in me and you, the hope of glory. That’s very different than saying that Jesus sits on the right hand of God. He is so far away from me. I look up once in a while. He must look down on me once in a while, but we’re so far.

And some religions say, “Jesus is so far, let’s put other people in between because it’s so hard to get to heaven.”

Our prayers don’t reach there, so let’s pray to saints, and let’s do all these weird things. It is a wrong picture. It’s a partial gospel that says Jesus is in heaven, seated there, and he’s staying there.

What I read just now is saying to us that heaven came down. Christ is in us, the hope of glory.

Romans 8:9.

9 You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. 10 But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. 11 If the Spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. (Romans 8:9-11, ESV)

Did you know it was a good thing that Jesus died on a cross and ascended to heaven? Jesus said, “I must do this, it is better for you.”

And we think, “No, Jesus, it would be better if you’re here with us physically.” Like that’s how the disciples are saying, that’s what they’re thinking, “Can I just, can you just stay here longer, why do you have to go?” They don’t understand what Jesus did for us.

That before, he’s limited, he’s a physical man, one person in one region, and he can only minister to a handful of people at a time.

But now that He ascended into heaven, by His Spirit, He has covered the earth, and He dwells in the hearts of all believers through the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Christ. Christ in us, heaven has come down.

It is very different than Jesus saving you. One day you will go to heaven. No, heaven has come down to you, and one day it will be final, a new heaven, new earth on this earth.

A new Garden of Eden, a heavenly city, a new Jerusalem.

A partial gospel says, “Sunday is great, but throughout the week I am struggling. I am struggling.” A full gospel says, “Jesus is with me on Sunday, he’s with me on Monday, he’s with me on Tuesday, he’s with me at work, he’s with me at school, he’s with me in my family, he’s with me every single day. And by his spirit, the truth that is in Jesus is in me.” And if you believe that Jesus is with you and in you, it’s a game changer. That’s what we’re celebrating on Resurrection Sunday.

It’s a game changer if Jesus is not up in the clouds, but he’s with you and in you, the hope of glory. It changes everything. Colossians 2:6.

6 Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, 7 rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. (Colossians 2:6-7, ESV)

It’s not a message you hear on a Sunday and then Monday you forget it. No, Jesus is the message, and this messenger is with you. He is in you, the hope of glory.

27 To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. (Colossians 1:27, ESV)

And we are being rooted in him. We’re walking in him. We’re being established in this faith in Jesus. And it’s a moment by moment reality for the believer. Not a Sunday extravaganza event, an Easter production. No, this is reality for us if you believe it.

There are many partial gospels mixed in with a lot of human cleverness and in some cases outright false religious legalism. You know, human cleverness, you’ve seen them on youTube. Jesus is mentioned during the service and in the background there’s a smoke machine and lights flickering different colors.

It’s a production, a lot of cleverness. And then there’s the outright religious legalistic churches where Jesus is tacked on at the end of the service. But the bulk of the service is, “Don’t do this. Get rid of your TV. Movies are evil. Music is evil. Don’t listen to anything. Don’t watch anything.”

And the members, you must all tithe, you must attend every meeting or someone’s going to knock on your door or give you a call and say, “What’s wrong with you?” and you’re in trouble. That kind of legalism, there’s many churches like that.

Clever churches, legalistic churches. There’s a different gospel that I read in Colossians. Colossians 2:8.

8 See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ. 9 For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, 10 and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority. (Colossians 2:8-10, ESV)

We need to discern what is partial, twisted, incomplete with the full gospel. And the full gospel dwells in Jesus. It’s the fullness of God in bodily form. And so, that is where we put our focus.

Colossians 2:16.

16 Therefore let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink, or with regard to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath. 17 These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. 18 Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without reason by his sensuous mind, 19 and not holding fast to the Head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God. (Colossians 2:16-19, ESV)

There’s an incomplete gospel, a legalistic twist of the gospel that says, “Don’t do this, don’t do this.” Or a charismatic twisting that says, “I saw angels, and we need to do all these.”

Things and fast for 40 days in order to access this secret knowledge. It’s all of this twisting of legalism and cleverness. And Jesus says, “Why don’t you just focus on me? Why don’t you just hold fast to me? I am the head. you’re members of the body. If you consistently hold fast to me, you’re going to be nourished and you’re going to grow. It’s going to be a proper growth, not growth in loyalty to a church or a pastor or a way of a human tradition.”

But it’s a proper growth that comes from the Lord as you hold fast to Jesus, the head. What difference does the gospel of Jesus Christ make in our lives? Colossians 3:1.

1 If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. 2 Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. 3 For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. 4 When Christ who is your life appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. (Colossians 3:1-4, ESV)

So, seek the things that are above. And you know, certain Christians who love quoting this verse, it seems like their head is always in the clouds. And this is the verse that gives them an excuse to be lazy. Like, I don’t have to be excellent at school. I don’t have to be excellent in my job. I’m just waiting for Jesus to come. And so, you’re just mediocre. you’re just average.

You just don’t care about things because your head is in the clouds. Is that what this verse means? I don’t think so, right? The fact that Jesus is in us and you’re in Jesus, it’s a game changer. It has the potential to change everything in your life, starting with your relationships in the church.

Colossians 3:12.

12 Put on then, as God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, 13 bearing with one another and, if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other; as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. 14 And above all these put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. 15 And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. 16 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God. 17 And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. (Colossians 3:12-17, ESV)

Imagine if the church of Jesus Christ looked at these verses and actually practiced them. Like, if Jesus was in this room, would we talk in a harsh way to one another? If Jesus is with us and in us, would we be gossiping and complaining about a brother or sister?

The reason why churches split and there’s factions and friction in the church is because the church is operating as if Jesus is not there. If he were there, that kind of talking, that kind of attitude, that kind of hostility, friction would not be present. I guarantee it.

If Jesus is with you and in you, if he’s in this sanctuary, we would be so much different in the way we talk, interact with one another in the body of Christ. Jesus in you makes all the difference. If he’s not with you, then likely the church and the world won’t look much different.

So, you have a problem with your boss, you’re gonna gossip, you’re gonna cause a division at your workplace. You take that mentality into the church.

You don’t like the pastor, you don’t like that brother, you don’t like that sister. you’re gonna start talking, you’re gonna form a little group amongst yourselves and start gathering more people. Before you know it, the church splits. It’s because churches don’t live as if Jesus is there in you and with you. If he’s with us, we would put on the characteristics of Christ. And every time that anger starts to surface, we would say, ‘Jesus, you’re not pleased with this, right?’

I know I should repent, and you cast it out of you and you put on Jesus’s character. That’s how it works. That’s how we become more like Jesus.

In the midst of gathering on a Sunday, it’s like if you’re on an island by yourself, if you’re a single person working remotely all day long, you might think, “I’m a good person.” As soon as you put another person in the room who thinks differently from you, who acts differently from you, from a different background, suddenly there’s friction. That’s why we need to gather.

We need to see what we’re made of. We need to see what’s deep inside. And the things that are not right, if Jesus is there, he’s saying, “Watch it, son, I see that.” And the Holy Spirit just gently says, “Oh, that attitude, that what you said, it’s just not right. Why don’t you repent?”

Jesus with us and in us is a game changer. It changes families. Colossians 3:18.

18 Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. 19 Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them. 20 Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord. 21 Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. (Colossians 3:18-21, ESV)

Apart from Jesus, you read a verse, verses like this, you say, “There’s no way I’m going to do this. I’m not, I’m, as a wife, what do you mean submit to my husband? I don’t, I don’t, I don’t think my husband’s that great. He’s inconsistent. He’s moody. You want me to submit? If Jesus is there, I guarantee, wife, you will submit.

The husband who just gets annoyed at the wife, just says, like, “What’s wrong with you?” and just is harsh. I guarantee if Jesus is there, husband, you won’t be harsh. And Jesus is there. He’s with you. He’s in you. And so, that changes how we speak to one another, right? In our families.

As children, your main responsibility, I’m speaking to all the people who are children living under your parents’ roof. It is not a democracy. It is a dictatorship. There is a king and there’s an authority structure in the home.

It is your job. It is your training, children, to obey your parents in everything.

20 Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord. (Colossians 3:20, ESV)

It says, not just what you want to obey. Not just the easy stuff, but in everything. It is your training. And you don’t want to do it. I know you don’t want to do it. I have children. I know they don’t want to listen. But if Jesus is there, I guarantee, child, you will listen. And Jesus is there. He’s with you. He’s in you.

Father is the way you speak to the children. I know it’s tough. When you’re annoyed, you think it’s right, I should put them in their place. Even that, there’s a line that we can cross. And if you provoke them, it can lead to discouragement. So even that, if Jesus is with us fathers, it will change the way that we speak to our children.

Colossians 4:1.

1 Masters, treat your bondservants justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven. (Colossians 4:1, ESV)

Jesus is with you and in you, and that means even it changes our school and our work. Everything changes.

Colossians 3:22.

22 Bondservants, obey in everything those who are your earthly masters, not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord.23 Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men, 24 knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ. 25 For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. (Colossians 3:22-25, ESV)

So, Jesus with us, it changes how we do school, how we do work. It changes everything. You might say, as a student, “I don’t feel like studying hard. Like, what’s in it for me? This doesn’t matter. Can’t I just get C’s? Can’t I just be lazy, procrastinate? Like, why is it important for me to work hard when in the end, does Jesus care about my degree?”

He cares. The fact that as a student, you’re doing it not for straight A’s, you’re doing it not for the college admission, you’re doing it unto the Lord Jesus, and you’re doing it for the glory of God your Father, and because of that reality, Jesus in you, with you, you do your best. You do your best.

The same for our companies. Why should we be the most excellent workers in our companies, in our workplaces? For the promotion? You know, when the boss is there, all of us are on our best behavior.

Like, suddenly, the phone is in our pocket. Suddenly, the youTube tab is closed. And we’ve got the Excel spreadsheet up when the boss is in the room, because our eyes are always on the boss. We’re looking for a good performance review, we’re looking for the promotion, we look for more money. All of that is for the wrong reason to work hard.

We work hard because Jesus is with us. He’s in us. God, our Father, He wants to be glorified as you have this perspective. And you are the best worker.

Everybody is fighting to have you on their team. you’re dependable. you’re trustworthy. you’re loyal. You don’t backbite. You don’t complain. Even if your boss did something bad, let the Lord deal with your boss.

You are the kind of person, you’re blameless. Everybody wants you. You have integrity. Why are you the best worker? Why are you the best student? It’s because Jesus is in you. He’s with you.

Jesus with you and in you has the potential to change how we interact with neighbors.

Colossians 4:5.

5 Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. 6 Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person. (Colossians 4:5-6, ESV)

Every person is in a different place spiritually. For some, street preaching may be the way to go. And they will hear that. And because they grew up in the church and they know what you’re preaching, and God, they will hear the voice of the Lord. They will bend the knee and they will come to you from that street preacher.

But, does that work for everybody? Like, I was in the farmer’s market in Torrance last year, and a street preacher – we made eye contact. And I’m like, I’m like giving him the thumbs up with my eyes. I keep going, keep preaching, brother. But he said, ‘Well, why don’t you come and preach with me?’

And I was busy that day. Maybe I should have, but I would, you know, it’s like I’ll support the street preacher and I’ll pray for him. But when he, when I’m not preaching with him and he’s judging me, I knew he’s judging me. And I know he wasn’t blessing me in that moment when I had something to take care of. And couldn’t he just bless me and just be encouraged that there’s a Christian there who’s praying for him? Instead, there’s a judgment like, ‘you’re not. Why aren’t you? You should be here.’

We need to, we need to speak to each person seasoned with salt. It’s the right approach to the right person. And the way you speak to certain people is not the same way that you speak to others.

So, I will speak to elders with certain respect. It’s just right. I will speak to parents with honor. It’s just right. I will speak to a non-Christian who was hurt by the church in a certain way. I will speak to someone who’s never been to church in a different way.

It’s tailor made to the person. All of this is Jesus in us. And if Jesus, he speaks to the crowd differently than he does a disciple. He speaks to the adulterous woman differently than he does to the Pharisees. It’s tailor made. And so, when you have Jesus in you, every person you meet, it’s a different approach and Jesus will give wisdom if you ask for it. What is the goal of gospel ministry?

And this is what I’m asking for us to all pray about as we gather as an expression of the universal church in this local place.

Colossians 1:21.

21 And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, 22 he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him, 23 if indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard… (Colossians 1:21-23, ESV)

And then Colossians 1:28.

28 Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ. 29 For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me. (Colossians 1:28-29, ESV)

And then I’ll go to the last chapter. Colossians 4:12.

12 Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers, that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God. 13 For I bear him witness that he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and in Hierapolis. (Colossians 4:12-13, ESV)

So the goal of gospel ministry is that you and I, at the end, are presented holy and blameless and above reproach before him, fully mature in Christ.

22 he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death, in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him, (Colossians 1:22, ESV)

And so what should we be doing for one another? We should be praying with all our effort for one another toward that end. So I’m going to close this portion of the service, but I will invite you to join me in saying amen.

You, prior to taking the Lord’s Supper, should spend some time praying for one another. Let’s get to know one another and ask, “What are you struggling with? What are you deficient in?” And someone near you, around you, even one other person, after you spend some time praying for yourself, reach over and tap a shoulder of someone next to you. I’ll also be in the front. Feel free to pray with me. And let’s pray and struggle in prayer on behalf of one another.

Because the goal of this is we want to see Jesus in us, fully formed, fully mature in Christ, holy and blameless. And so if there are issues that need prayer, we need to know about them. And the most loving thing you can do for me and we can do for one another is pray for each other specifically. Struggle in prayer for each other to see that thing that bothers you. Instead of being bothered, pray for that person. Pray for that deficiency. Pray for that flaw. Pray for that immaturity to be formed in Christ.

And that is the most lofty ministry. That’s why we’re gathered, so we can get to know each other and pray for each other and move toward that end so that we’re fully formed in Christ.

Okay, let’s pray.

Thank you, Father, that you brought heaven down to us in the form of your Son. Lord, you don’t just save us so that one day we may see you in heaven. Jesus, you’re here with us, in us, with us. the Spirit of Christ, the Holy Spirit, dwells with us and in us. It’s the hope of glory.

It changes everything. It changes how we do Monday through Saturday. It changes how we do church and relate with one another. It changes the way our families, husbands and wives, and parents and children interact. It changes those relationships. It changes our attitude toward our studies and toward our work. It changes how we interact with neighbors.

So, Lord, everything changes with this truth. The full gospel of Jesus Christ has come down to earth and is now available, is with us, and in us.

We pray, Lord, now for the body of Christ, for the fellow brothers sitting on our left and our right. We want to pray, struggling with all might to pray for one another so that each of us can be formed, fully holy and blameless. Thank you. That’s why, Jesus, you came. You died on a cross for our sins. You shed your blood for the forgiveness of all of our sins. We pray that you would minister to us as we minister to one another in prayer. In Jesus name we pray, Amen.
