
Thank you. Thank you for the three brothers who shared, especially Alfonso. So good to see you from Culver City and now in Bellflower. It’s been a while, but it’s so nice to have you here.

I think it’s in line with the message, all the testimonies. And if you want to know what’s going on in my heart, just listen more carefully to the messages. It’s kind of like my journal. So you’re getting a taste of what I’m feeling.

And in a sense, we are all in a wilderness, and God is trying to communicate something deep to us and meet us in a special way.

So please turn with me to John, chapter six. I’ll just read a few verses, and then we’ll share. John 6:66-68.

66 After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. 67 So Jesus said to the twelve, “Do you want to go away as well?” 68 Simon Peter answered him, “Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, (John 6:66-68, ESV)

You have the words of eternal life, and we have believed and have come to know that you are the holy one of God.

Okay, let’s pray.

Lord Jesus, in a difficult season that many of us find ourselves in, where we are confused, things are not happening the way that we think they should happen. There are circumstances that are difficult and challenging.

And, Lord, there are times we want to throw in the towel, but, Lord, we look to Peter’s confession of faith and we all want to get there.

So, Lord, we pray that you would get us closer to this confession through your word. In Jesus’ Name we pray, Amen.

Have you ever met somebody, and especially somebody in the church, and you just assume when you meet someone in the church, there’s a deep spiritual connection? You should just, you know, hit it right, hit it off well, and connect and share and just mutually edify.

There are times, though, that I’ve been in church where you’re trying to connect with somebody in the church, and for whatever reason, we’re like two ships sailing past each other.

There was a sister years ago that Jackie and I, we were trying to minister to. We understood very well that the church she had come from, it was not a good church. And we were trying to untangle the mess of things that were in there.

And every time we finished a conversation, I asked Jackie, did we communicate? Did I make sense?

I can’t quite understand her. And for a year plus, we were just. I was trying to help. Just couldn’t help her for whatever reason.

I think the same thing happens with Jesus all the time. We’re all here to meet Jesus. We want to meet Jesus. There’s no other reason to be here than to meet him. And we want to have that heart to heart spiritual connection with him.

Yet why do we miss him? It’s like the crowd, the bleeding woman story. So many people are pressing in, and Jesus doesn’t stop at all.

But there’s one encounter with the bleeding woman. Jesus senses power going out of him, and that’s a meaningful encounter. And then this woman is healed and is saved.

But often, doesn’t it feel like we’re just bumping into Jesus, like we’re part of a crowd? And then we just kind of walk past each other. We want to strike up a conversation, we want to go a little deeper with him. But it’s just, we just bumped into him. He’s going his way, I’m going my way, and then nothing changes.

But we’re here because we want that meaningful encounter. You know, people share about Jesus. And sometimes you can tell this, they’re sharing something very real. Like what Alfonso shared, that kind of prayer request. I’m lonely. And then a few days later, God answers it. I mean, that’s real. That’s something that’s quantifiable. There’s a testimony that can come out of that.

But a lot of times we share things and I wonder, is it from an actual encounter with Jesus or are we just parroting what we heard from somebody else? So it’s secondhand, it’s third hand.

It’s not really like Jesus. And I really talked and he showed me something, but it’s, I heard it from somebody else. It’s secondhand, third hand. It’s like we’re in a crowd, pressing in. We made some contact with Jesus, but it’s not really meaningful and it’s not firsthand.

I just want to explore just a few reasons why we might not be having a meaningful encounter with Jesus. The first reason we miss Jesus is Jesus is just a means to an end. John 6:14.

14 When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, “This is indeed the Prophet who is to come into the world!” 15 Perceiving then that they were about to come and take him by force to make him king, Jesus withdrew again to the mountain by himself. (John 6:14-15, ESV)

None of us like feeling used. Like there’s some people, like they call you up, but always it’s because they need something. They need some advice, they need some money. They just want companionship.

Whatever it is, you don’t feel like you’re actually meeting that person. They’re just there because you’re a means to an end. They’re looking past you. you’re just the mechanism that I’m going to get what I need.

And Jesus can perceive this. I don’t know if you knew that. Jesus doesn’t just entrust himself to everybody. He doesn’t just heal everybody and deliver everybody and have a conversation with everybody.

I wonder, out of the tens of thousands that he must have bumped into in his lifetime, how many were meaningful.

And we get a snapshot in scripture, but it seems like it’s a small percentage. Seems like it’s a small percentage. And why is it? It’s because Jesus perceives something in all of us. He sees something in the crowd. And if it’s not what he intends, then he says, I’m going to withdraw myself from this.

Jesus actually hides from certain people. It’s like, why is Jesus not just trying to persuade them and talk to them? Jesus doesn’t waste time if he perceives something and said, okay, they’re not ready right now.

They need, they just saw a sign, the miracle. And that’s why they’re following me. He hides. And so if we come to Jesus with the wrong heart, we’re not going to meaningfully connect with him because he withdraws. He hides.

So if we’re having trouble connecting with Jesus, we should say, Lord, what is it in me that’s causing you to hide and withdraw yourself? Am I using you as a means to an end? Like, people go to church for all kinds of reasons, and I’m lonely.

That’s not a bad thing to want to come to church and meet brothers and sisters, people who will actually care for you and pray for you. It’s not a bad thing.

But if that’s the ultimate thing in your life, like, Jesus is just a means to me having good, nice people around me. I just need some friends. I need community. If that’s it, Jesus can perceive it, and he will actually withdraw from that person and wait for the proper time to have an actual encounter with that person.

Jesus perceives our heart. He perceives our posture.

He perceives our attitude. He perceives our motives. Like, the real reason, the why behind our lives. Like, why are we here in church? Are we using God, like, as leaders? We want God to do an amazing thing here. Why is that? Is it for God to be glorified? Is it? Or is it for my selfish ambition to be puffed up and me to become proud?

So God can perceive. Jesus can perceive that in me and all of us. And so we might say, Lord, why aren’t you moving faster? God, he has his reasons.

He has his reasons. If he perceives something in me, in us, that is not right, he might want to pour out all the blessings and give us all the Spiritual gifts. But if we turned out like the Corinthian church, and then we had different people in this church rising up and saying, look at how great I am. Look at my spiritual gift. Everybody come to me. I have all this wisdom, and I can heal you. And word of knowledge, we can evangelize on the street, and we just got all puffed up in ourselves.

Jesus can perceive all of it. So there’s a reason why he hides. He withdraws. And that was his response to this crowd. They just wanted food in their belly. They wanted to make Jesus king, a political king, somebody powerful enough to overthrow Rome.

So what is the reason why we’re here? Is Jesus a means to an end? Or do you really want Jesus? Do you want that encounter? Let’s just search our hearts about that question as we continue to listen.

24 So when the crowd saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats and went to Capernaum, seeking Jesus. 25 When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, “Rabbi, when did you come here?” 26 Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, you are seeking me, not because you saw signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves. 27 Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal.” (John 6:24-27, ESV)

So Jesus can perceive the why behind why we’re here.

We all have needs. We have physical needs. We have emotional needs. We have financial needs. There are so many reasons people go to a church. They need direction. They need their life to improve. They need a better life, a better version of themselves. They need to salvage their marriage. Their kids are rebellious. There are so many reasons people come, and Jesus can perceive why you are here.

Do you really want to meaningfully talk to me, or are you just using me to get what you want? And as soon as you get it, you won’t call upon my name.

Let’s keep wrestling. Why are we here? Why do we attend church?

A second reason. We miss Jesus. We focus on external activity. John 6:28.

28 Then they said to him, “What must we do, to be doing the works of God?” 29 Jesus answered them, “This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent.” (John 6:28-29, ESV)

We might take comfort in this and say, well, look, we don’t have to do any work, because the point is believing in Jesus. That is the work. If we believe in Jesus, he may tell us to work. But if you don’t believe in Jesus, then stop talking about working.

Let’s get the order right. Let’s meet Jesus first. I think that’s what he’s saying here. But many people come to church, and as soon as they step through the door, there’s somebody putting a card in front of them and saying, where do you want to serve?

Where can I plug myself in? Is there any need? I want to volunteer. And you either want to do it, or there’s plenty of people who look at newcomers and say, okay, there is the pool from which I’m going to bring out some workers.

And Jesus is saying, why are you talking about works? First, you gotta meet me. Don’t you want to meet me? Isn’t that why you came and listened to my sermon? Or were you just looking past the sermon? You just wanted the food at the end.

And so now you’re like Jesus. He’s no longer there. He’s moving to another place. you’re following him like you’re some groupie and you’re a fan, and you’re just following Jesus wherever he is, not for the message. You want the food, you want what he has to offer.

28 Then they said to him, “What must we do, to be doing the works of God?” (John 6:28, ESV)

And we might say, well, the reason my life is a message is because I’m not doing something. Like, there’s some program I need to follow, there’s some prayer I need to recite, there’s something I need to do. I’m not doing it. That’s why I’m messed up.

And Jesus is saying, why are you trying to fix yourself through some programs, some works? The way you get yourself fixed is to meet me. your work is to believe in me.

There’s other works. Of course, we’re going to have to work. If you’re in the kingdom of God, God will use you for works. There is that. But first, let’s get the order right.

You obviously don’t believe in me, and so let’s get that straightened out first. And he says, this is the work of God for you. Crowd churchgoer, you need to meet me.

Third reason we miss Jesus is because of our greed. John 6:30.

30 So they said to him, “Then what sign do you do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? 31 Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness; as it is written, ‘He gave them bread from heaven to eat.'” 32 Jesus then said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. 33 For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.” 34 They said to him, “Sir, give us this bread always.” 35 Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life; whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. (John 6:30-35, ESV)

Do you get the sense that the crowd and Jesus, they’re just missing each other? They just keep missing each other. Jesus says something. They don’t get it. They say something else. They ask another question. They make another request. And it’s just so clear to Jesus what he perceived in them at the beginning.

Now we can all see they’re not interested in Jesus, and their stance is, prove yourself, Jesus, give me a sign. Isn’t this coming out of greed? Like, Jesus already fed them, they already witnessed that sign. But what have you done for me lately? It doesn’t matter if you answered my prayer last week. I have a need today.

Can you meet me today? Can you answer this prayer request today? It’s our greed. Like, do we care about meeting Jesus, or do we just want our prayer requests answered?

Jesus perceives it all. Is he a means to an end? Is he just the vending machine? I have a need. Just press a button. You offer a prayer. The prayer request is answered. you’re just waiting for the cookie.

Jesus, I’m not a vending machine. Do you. Do you. Do you want to meet me or nothing? Isn’t that why you’ve come? Obviously, that’s not why you came.

I perceived it at the beginning. Now, everyone who witnesses their exchange, we see what Jesus saw spiritually. Now we can see it with our own eyes.

Haven’t we said this often? Jesus, if you just answer, if you just give me this one thing, then I will live for you. Like, there’s some emergency, like, your kid is lost. Lord, if you just save my kid, I will give the rest of my life to you. And then you forget about that prayer request. Years later, God answers that prayer request.

But by then, you have, like, a hundred other things. He said, if you give me this, I will live for you. Isn’t it just greed? Like, does he owe us anything? What if he doesn’t answer anything? Just the fact that we’re saved. Don’t we owe everything to Jesus? Don’t we owe him our lives, even if he doesn’t do anything for us?

Shouldn’t that be our attitude? Lord, it’s not greed. It’s not just, I need this, then I will do that. No, it’s just Jesus is perceiving. Are you interested in a relationship?

Do you want to get to know me? Jesus’ response is, well, you asked for a sign. Let me tell you, I am the sign.

Remember Moses? Remember Manna? That whole thing? That was a pointer. Now here it is. I am the sign. I am the bread from heaven. So why don’t you come to me and eat and drink? If you do, you’ll never hunger and thirst.

And they’re just sailing past each other. They’re just only thinking about their belly. Like, when’s my next meal coming? I need food.

Jesus is saying…

48 I am the bread of life. (John 6:48, ESV)

Once you are nourished by me, you’re not going to chase after and worry about food. Like, stop seeking that. That will come. But first seek me. I am the true bread.

He’s just trying to wake them out of their blindness and their slumber and just try to connect in a way, but they’re just missing each other.

Fourth, we miss Jesus because we think we already have him. We think we already know him enough. And that’s in John 6:41.

41 So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said, “I am the bread that came down from heaven.” 42 They said, “Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, ‘I have come down from heaven’?” (John 6:41-42, ESV)

I think pastors stop talking about Jesus because they get bored of Jesus. I think, like, Jesus is so basic, so familiar.

Let’s talk about something more interesting, like your issues and what you need and how Christianity can help you be a better person and a better father and have a better marriage and have purpose in your life.

There’s so many more interesting topics to cover on a Sunday. And it’s like we treat Jesus like we grew up with him. I’m from Nazareth, too. I know his parents. I know Jesus was that little boy running around the town. And he’s so familiar. I know him. We know him so well.

So let’s talk about something else.

Let’s talk about something more interesting. I think pastors, we get bored because we think we know him. We think we know him enough. He’s so familiar. His name is mentioned every Sunday, and Jesus is asking, well, when’s the last time you met me? When’s the last time you met me?

Like I remember the last time. It was in Mexico, just preaching right before preaching during the praise time. Just unexpectedly, he met me. And I want to have that every day.

But for whatever reason, I’m struggling now that I’m back in America. I’m struggling to have that encounter. Like I should have something like that. But there’s things in my heart, there’s reasons why I think I’m struggling.

Because there, it’s just so simple. you’re not thinking about finances and work and church growth and kids. Like, we’re all there. We’re just serving the Lord in simplicity. And so, with that, all the things that are in my heart, normally it’s just put aside for a week. And no wonder, no wonder Jesus shows up.

The difference was my heart was in a different condition. Not that Jesus is different; he’s always wanting to meet me. But for that week of just no Internet, no distractions, no worries, we could just meet him, worship him, work hard with our hands, worship in the morning, worship in the night.

That’s that simplicity. Like a wilderness training, like what Alfonso is going through. It was that kind of a week for us. And no wonder I could meet him there.

We should never say, Jesus. I have him, I know him.

Therefore, let’s go on to a different subject.

Every time we gather, we want to meet him. Every time you open up your Bible, you want to meet him. Every time you pray, you want to meet him.

He’s an infinite God. He can’t be known. Even if you study hard and pray hard for the next 50 years, you’re just going to get not even 1% of him.

We will spend all of eternity finding out who Jesus is and who God our father is, who the Spirit is for all eternity. And we will never exhaust him.

So why do we get bored? It’s because we haven’t met him. If you meet him, your hunger for him grows. Like I met him in Mexico, I want to meet him again. I’m thirsty for that encounter again.

Fifth, we miss Jesus because we abandon him when the going gets tough. I think that’s an all too familiar story. When our life is confusing or difficult, we abandon Jesus. He’s the first to go. If you had a bad experience in church, I’m sorry you went through that, but it’s not God’s fault. God is not.

Our Father is not like that. He’s not harsh like that. He’s not burdensome. He doesn’t lift heavy burdens and just load you beyond what you can bear. Our Father is not like that.

Jesus, is so humble and gentle. Even though we’re spiritually dense and have thick skulls, we come to him with the same issues over and over. He never says, you again. The same issue again. He’s not frustrated. He’s so happy that you came. That is how kind, so humble and gentle of heart Jesus is.

And so we just, from one bad experience in a church, we just attribute that to God and say, I don’t want anything to do with God, but it has nothing to do with God. It’s just that person who didn’t know how to lead.

And so for whatever reason, we go through times that are difficult. And it says in John 6:51….

51 I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh.” 52 The Jews then disputed among themselves, saying, “How can this man give us his flesh to eat?” (John 6:51-52, ESV)

2,000 years later, we’re still debating the body and the blood of Jesus for communion. We’re still debating it.

Imagine before Jesus died, buried, and was resurrected, and Jesus is starting to talk about what is about to come. And you heard this. And this is like, what is this cannibalism? This is so crazy what Jesus is saying.

It’s so hard to comprehend and just, it’s a normal reaction. What they’re saying is just confusing. It’s difficult. How can this man give us his flesh? He’s alive. Is it what, he’s going to chop off his arm and serve it on a platter? It is so ridiculous and nonsensical because this is before everything that Jesus would now show us and now comes to pass after he dies and resurrected and now many years later.

And we have the advantage of reading the New TestAment and reading First Corinthians and Paul, explaining what this body and the blood of Jesus and what we’re supposed to do in remembrance of Jesus. They didn’t have any of it, no context. This teaching out of the blue, it is so difficult.

And so what do they do? They start debating. They say this is crazy talk. I can’t follow this kind of a crazy man anymore.

And then Jesus perceives this, and then he says in verse 61.

61 But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, “Do you take offense at this? 62 Then what if you were to see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before? 63 It is the Spirit who gives life; the flesh is no help at all. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life. (John 6:61-63, ESV)

If they try to understand with their flesh, with their faculties, with their IQ, with just debating back and forth, they’re going to get nowhere.

It’s of no value. You need the Spirit to give revelation, the one who gives life. And these words that were spoken, Jesus said, are spirit and life. But he perceived that many, many of his disciples were taking offense at this statement.

And then in verse 66.

66 After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. (John 6:66, ESV)

Is this how we grow churches? That we speak things that are confusing and offensive and we don’t even explain it? And the newcomer says, what is this?

And they say, I’m never going back to that church. Is Jesus interested in growing a church, or does He just want a meaningful encounter with whoever is sincere? Sincere? Like, as long as we’re sincere and there’s only a handful of us, isn’t that what He wants?

Does He want a crowd of people who are just there for all the wrong reasons? They don’t really care for a meaningful encounter. They just want something from Him. He’s a means to getting my belly full. Is that what Jesus wants?

A room full of people who hear one thing and just throw everything out that they witness with Jesus because they took offense at this one thing, and life is now confusing. It’s difficult. I’m abandoning Jesus now.

I think their reaction, because these were disciples, is so common even in the church. Just one bad experience, just one confusing situation, just one difficult set of circumstances. All it takes. And the first thing we do is forget Jesus. He’s not doing it for me. He’s not helping me. He’s not explaining it to me. My life is confusing.

It doesn’t make sense. This rabbi, he doesn’t know what he’s talking about. I need to find another teacher, somebody who is more learned, more understanding, who will give me interesting things and explain it to me in a way that I can package it, in a way that I can receive it.

Jesus wasn’t that way at all. He wanted sincere followers. And so he spoke something that was clearly offensive, clearly confusing, and many disciples walked away. His church shrunk immediately.

From this day forward, maybe Jesus had hundreds of disciples, but it got very small on this day. And we know even after he resurrected, 120, that’s not a lot for the best teacher who ever lived, the Son of God. It’s not a lot because Jesus is after sincere followers. Sincere followers.

John 6:66.

66 After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. 67 So Jesus said to the twelve, “Do you want to go away as well?” 68 Simon Peter answered him, “Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, 69 and we have believed, and have come to know, that you are the Holy One of God.” (John 6:66-69, ESV)

Now that’s what a sincere follower of Jesus sounds like. Did Peter understand any more than the vast majority of disciples who left? I don’t think so. I don’t think any of them understood what Jesus taught about his body and his blood and his flesh. And they’re going to eat and drink and abide in him and have eternal life. I don’t think they had a clue. I don’t think Peter had a clue.

But he experienced Jesus enough. He had enough meaningful contact with Jesus over his short one, two years, three years max of knowing Jesus. He had enough of that connection that even though he didn’t understand, in the face of confusion and difficulty, he said, to whom shall we go? What other option do we have? You have the words of eternal life. I know what you’re saying is true. I don’t understand, but I know they’re true. I know the words are confusing and I can’t explain it, but I know at the end it leads to eternal life.

He had that faith, and that’s a sincere follower. To whom shall we go? I have no other. Plan B. you’re it. Jesus, I want to meet you. Jesus, please explain it to me. If you don’t explain it to me now, I know at a later date the explanation will come as long as I hold on.

If you’re in a season of difficulty, if you’re in a wilderness, you may not understand. And I’ve been in a wilderness for twelve plus years, and it’s going.

I don’t understand why the Lord called me in the way he did, and he planted me in various places. And now in Belfast, I don’t know. But I do know I have nowhere else to go but Jesus, and I have to just hold on to him.

And if I don’t understand why specifically the details of my life today, as long as I hold on to Jesus, the answer will come at a later date.

And so if you are confused about your life, if you’re complaining about your life, if you are frustrated with your set of circumstances and you’re tempted to say, Jesus, maybe you’re not the one. Maybe I should look for another teacher, another source of satisfaction.

My encouragement to you coming from the apostle Peter, is to say…

68… Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life, (John 6:68, ESV)

Just hold on to him. Hold on to Jesus. Even if it doesn’t make sense. Hold on to him at a later time. He will explain fully your life and why you had to go through what you had to go through. He will fully unpack it for you at a later date. If not here, then in the afterlife. He will explain everything you face in life. Every famine, every difficulty, every tribulation, every wilderness season. He will unpack exactly why.

And Lord Jesus is looking for one thing: sincere followers. No ulterior motive. No other agenda. You just want him.

Okay. Let’s pray.

Father, forgive us. We perceive in ourselves, and Jesus perceives in us as well, things that are not right.

A wrong heart. Wrong desires. Wrong motives. Pride. Selfish ambition. Vain conceit. Wanting praise from men. There’s many things in our heart that cause you, Lord Jesus, to withdraw and hide.

So we repent of those things one by one. Holy Spirit, help us. Help us. Show us whatever is in our heart that is causing Jesus to hide and withdraw. We want to apologize and say sorry for all of those things. Repent of all of our sins and come to you with a clean heart, with clean motives, pure motives, sincerity of heart. Like Peter.

Not understanding the full story and what you’re saying even now. But confessing. Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life.

There’s nowhere else I can turn to. I’m going to hold on to you through all the confusion, the difficulty, the wilderness, the frustration. I have nowhere else to turn but you.

I pray, Lord Jesus, that you would meet us as we partake in the Lord’s Supper. Thank you for your body that was broken for us and your blood that was shed. Now we have the advantage of all of scripture.

The Holy Spirit that’s been poured out at Pentecost. We have the advantage. Now we know fully what you meant in John 6.

And so, Lord, even if there are things that we don’t understand, we know that one day everything will be made plain. You explain our entire lives to us, one by one. But, Lord, we live by faith and not by sight. So, Lord, we fix our eyes upon you.

Thank you, Lord. In Jesus’ Name, Amen.
